I thought that it was kind of funny one time when we had bread pudding.
They sent us around to collect all of the big platters or bowls of bread pudding we could and then had a contest to see which freshman could eat the most.
I don't think I ever ate bread pudding again after it cured me once and for all.
As you recall those meals, did you have plenty to eat?
Oh, yes.
And the food was good.
The only time I, you know,
didn't like it or as a sophomore avoided the mess hall was when they served liver or something that I never really cared for and usually they'd tell us about that when the whistle jock would do his call and announce what was being served at the meal and we'd march up to the dining hall and as we hit the bottom steps I'd turn around go somewhere else go find a hamburger at Northgate or something did liver have a nickname
I'm sure it did.
Surely it did.
I've never heard one before.
I don't know.
I imagine.
What was the favorite dessert of desserts?
Was there one?
Little Valley.
Ice cream was real popular when we had it, which was not real often.
All right, let's see.
Your outfit.
What was its number and nickname?
Well, A2 was an old field artillery outfit.
And so, as far as nickname goes, we were, didn't call us.
I don't know, we sang the field artillery song as we marched off the field at drill and
different things like that.
The band, knowing that we were a field artillery outfit, would often accommodate us by starting to play it after we passed the reviewing stand.
So we kind of felt like we had an edge on a lot of other outfits that didn't get that privilege.
Of course, when we were competing strongly with the band for the marching chord one year, just before we got to the reviewing stand,
broke out into the most joyous circus march you've ever seen.
And we bounced by the reviewing stand and dropped about 10 places in the marching place.
And of course, about a week later, the band came back to their dorm and found the water flowing out the doors.
They had gotten into it through the steam tunnels and taken off all the shower heads and everything, then turned the water back on.
They say that the floors over in dorm
11 are still bowed from the weight of the water that rested on them.
But nobody knew how that accidental leak of water had gotten started.
Well, I think they knew exactly where it came from, but there wasn't anything they could do about it.
Did you make some special friendships that first year?
Well, of course, there...
I had some people that I was very close to, but they were mostly hometown buddies of mine that, like Lenny Cruz over in the Air Force unit, he and I talked each other into staying here.
If we'd have ever both wanted to leave at the same time, we'd have probably quit.
But fortunately, it always worked out that one of us was willing to talk the other one into staying.
And Lenny has been mayor of League City now and is an attorney down in Galveston.
He ended up very successful after he finally quit trying to be an architect.
When did you first begin to privately worry about, should I stay here, should I drop out, should I go somewhere else?
Did you have any of those feelings that first semester?
Oh, I had a lot of those feelings that first semester.
I'm not sure about any specific instances except that it usually I think followed some periods in which certain sophomores seemed to take a hideous delight in finding things to make life miserable for me and wanting to keep me up all night even if I had certain classes I had to deal with the next day.
polishing people's floors and things like that.
Matter of fact, one of the guys that comes and visits me every once in a while, I've got a couple of kids in school now, was one of the sophomores that did a lot of that back then.
And I don't think he really knew what he was doing except exerting his authority.
I think he didn't have much appreciation for the fact that
And I think a lot of guys sort of figured that if they could run somebody off, that that was their job.
I really do.
I think that their attitude was, if we can make them go, they shouldn't be here in the first place.
What were some of the assignments that you were given?
Samples of those, please.
We were mostly given what were called fart-off assignments, where
One upperclassman would tell you to go do something to another upperclassman and either verbally or maybe something not exactly confrontational but more physical in nature.
And we would usually have two upperclassmen oftentimes would tell us to do something and we quickly learned that
We tried to do what the one we got along with the best would let us do because we knew the other one was going to give us hell no matter what we did.
So we didn't want to make the one we got along with a little better mad at us.
We had some interesting times that freshman year.
The football players thought it was real funny one night.
They loaded up their trash cans with water and came over from Henderson Hall right across the field there.
and threw water in the bottom floor windows of our dorm.
One guy had an architecture project that was totally ruined that he'd been working months on.
And we sat around trying to figure out what were we gonna do to get back at these people.
And the next day as we went to class, the swimming pool at Henderson Hall had turned a bright red color.
And apparently when they drained the pool, all of the red adhered to the walls of the pool.
and so for a week or two after that we kind of enjoyed going by there on our way to class and watching the football players out there scrubbing the sides of that swimming pool trying to get the red ink off or paint or whatever it was.
Had some hellacious water fights.
It was usually a warm night in the spring and somebody was bored and wanted something to do so they got out in the middle of the quad and started yelling water fight and the next thing you know we had
military operations with one unit lined up over here and one unit lined up over here and at a given command they would charge each other and throw their buckets of water and try to just drown everybody out.
We didn't have any of this quadding, they call it now, where they spread eagle and throw water out about a third floor window onto people.
We didn't do any of that back then.
Although I did understand that one guy in a nearby dorm
playing a game of hall hockey, went out of an up floor window and somehow survived it and walked away from it.
But accidentally he went out the window?
Oh yeah, they were racing to try to score a goal at the end of the hall and he didn't stop when he got to the window at the end of the hall.
Did y'all have drown outs?
Oh yeah.
We had, I don't know what language you want on this tape, but we had these sticks made out of end of coke cases that would
be used to lock the doors from the outside when you did something and we would have a guy there with a stick and then somebody would go in with a bucket or with a firecracker or something like that and throw it at whoever was in the bed and then we'd slam the doors closed and throw the stick on it and they couldn't get out.
You'd usually hear them yelling in there.
And they pulled a trick one time where they took an inner tube from a bicycle and they tied one end of it to the inside door handle.
The room doors all opened in to the room.
And then they tied a piece of rope to the other end of the inner tube and then they stretched it and tied it to the
and then about four of them would get a hold of the door and pull the door closed and of course the tension on it would hold it kind of stiff and when a guy came to open his door it wouldn't turn good and he'd have to grab that handle and turn it and the next thing you know he was launched into his room.
They left a footlocker out in the middle of the room one time for a guy and he nearly killed himself.
He stopped about this far short of going out the window.
But people set off fireworks outside of the windows in the middle of study period at night during the call to quarters.
And we think it was an M-80 practice grenade that somebody lowered on a string and set off ones that literally shattered a guy's window.
And it could have been very damaging.
Luckily, he was not sitting where it would hit him when it came in.
But he did walk around with his ears ringing for quite a long time after that.
But babo bombs, another innovation of that was the cocoa bomb.
which provided this nice little brown powder.
You packed it down in a little Dixie cup or something, put a T-bomb or a cherry bomb in the middle of it, and then taped over the top of it with just the fuse sticking out.
You'd light that and toss it into somebody's room.
And my brother was in his bed one time over in dorm 17,
He heard somebody at the door and about that time he saw the trail of sparks from the fuse as they tossed this into his room.
And he said he knew he didn't have time to get out the door, so he just grabbed the sheets and pulled them over his head.
After that thing went off, he peeked out and there was this cloud of dust coming down.
And he said that stuff got in.
Inside of every shirt or pair of clothing in the drawers in the dresser, got inside of the clothes hanging in the closet, the powder just went everywhere.
Now, normally, did the person...
get bombed after doing something to some other people?
Well, usually it was a sophomore or even a junior occasionally who raised hell with somebody below him.
And he was getting paid back.
That's right.
It was comeuppance.
Then what was their retaliation normally then?
Well, of course, they usually put the entire freshman class or whoever they thought did it through hell.
One time when a junior got something happened to him,
He jumped all over the sophomores because he figured the freshmen weren't going to mess with him because he never did anything to the freshmen.
And we had a little fun that week watching the sophomores go through hell.
Let's see.
Sophomore.
What was it like to be a sophomore?
Well, it felt like you'd just kind of died and gone to heaven for a while until you suddenly realized there were two classes still above you.
And that not only did they have the authority to give you hell if they wanted to, but they were also kind of like the policeman guarding and watching what you were doing with the freshman.
So you had to kind of watch your step a little more carefully, but at least as long as you kept it within reasonable bounds, you were pretty well allowed to
deal with the freshman any way you wanted to.
Now did that transition of ceasing to be a fish, did that occur at final review?
It was supposed to occur at final review and the idea was that at final review everybody moved up a class so you were no longer a freshman.
I do remember that, let's see,
I can't remember if it was just before final review.
I think before final review, they had some sessions with us in which they kind of told us how it was going to be.
And some of them started getting pretty casual about things then.
And then after final review, it was all a done deal.
And everybody went around shaking hands.
And those that hadn't dropped handles with you, and you
changed into your new uniform pieces for the second time around.
So it was different.
My sophomore year, I got in a little bit of trouble because we had a short junior who was fixing to become a senior.
And I made the mistake of commenting offhandedly that he would be able to keep his senior boots under his bed.
And so I got to actually leave after final review.
I had to go home in class A uniform when everybody else was in civilian clubs.
During all those years, whether it was your first or your last year, there must have been some people that now you look back upon as memorable as teachers, advisors, role models who were
Well, the one I remember the most was Dan Lowe over in business because I'd transferred to accounting and was in that area when I ended up laying out of school in 62.
And I was called before an appeals board when I was notified that I was going to be dropped from the rolls for a period of time.
And the main thing that stuck in my mind was Dan Lowe telling me
to make up my mind right then, that minute, that I was gonna come back and finish my degree.
Because he said that if you didn't do it now, you'd keep putting it off and putting it off until eventually you never would do it.
And that was the best advice I ever got, because I did have it in my mind to come back from that moment.
As far as teachers, of course I had Jim Earl for graphics,
Jim was a lot different sort of person teaching than he was out in just social life.
Describe that.
Well, he was very, he was an easy going teacher but he was very rigid that you needed to know how to do this and you needed to get your drawings right and things and he didn't have a whole lot of patience with people who didn't take the time and spend the effort to learn how to do it right.
And I think I got a mediocre grade in that class, but that was one of the things I was able to leave behind me when I left engineering.
Were you all aware then, the students, that he did Cadet Slouch?
Oh, yes.
We knew who he was.
And I've had a very pleasant relationship with him since then.
Matter of fact, we have
I talked him into doing a cartoon time or two for us on the magazine.
He helped do a promotion for our building fund campaign here.
And he did a cartoon for me once about some old timers commenting.
We sent him a cut line and he did it about some old timers sitting around wondering if heaven was going to be like A&M.
Were you students aware of who the model was for Cadet Slouch?
The model?
No.
Who was the person?
I don't think I ever knew that.
He told me it was Jim Earl.
Jim Earl was his own model?
I wasn't surprised.
Who did he use for Cadet Squirt?
I don't know.
I wondered.
My favorite one of his cartoons was that one of Cadet Squirt in that raincoat with that helmet liner.
down over his head where he couldn't really see anything but the raincoat and the helmet liner, and he's carrying this sign that says, wait till next year.
Of course, we did that a lot back then.
We didn't win a lot of football games in those days.
Who were some other advisors, teachers that now you look back upon with some gratitude?
They made a difference.
Oh, golly.
Well, I had Carl Elmquist for English, and interestingly enough, he became one of my predecessors in the Texas Aggie Magazine because he edited it on a part-time basis for a couple of years back then, and I think that was after I left and before Joe Buser came in.
I remember taking his literature class and
And quite frankly, I very rarely could interpret the literature the way he said it was supposed to be interpreted.
I've learned a lot since then and I'm really appreciative of poetry and prose now that I didn't have at that time.
When did you become a journalism major?
When I came back to school, my brother had been a journalism major and I had taken that photography course in journalism while I was still in the core.
And after that, I don't know, I just,
I kind of liked what he said he was doing and what was going on so I thought I'd try journalism and it stuck and it was one of the best decisions I ever made.
What about some journalism faculty that were important to you?
Well, of course, Wes Calvert was over there then.
He's the guy I took photography from, and I think he was very knowledgeable, and I think he gave us a broad range of experience.
I mean, the exercises that we went through, and don't get me wrong, I don't want to criticize what they're doing over there now, but it was much more, to me, journalistic photography that we were being taught instead of photography for photography's sake.
They end up with a lot of lighting exercises and special setup exercises and stuff where he taught us how to try to go get the picture and how to look for an angle that would be different to show and illustrate what's going on in a particular event.
And I guess he taught me well.
I got dirt thrown in my face by the mayor of Galveston at a
groundbreaking ceremony once because I laid down on my back and shot the picture past the shovels of him and the dignitaries digging dirt and he tossed dirt right at me.
But it was fun over there.
Mr. Knight was one of the journalism professors.
pretty rigid and not a whole lot of fun I remember and he did concentrate a lot on the basics of learning you know how to put a story together and how to get it in the right order and that.
Probably the most fun prof we had over there was Dave Bowers.
Dave was kind of a freshman himself.
He came in here after having worked for newspapers and
To show you how easy-going a guy Dave was, I sold subscriptions to Playboy magazine back then, and Dave bought a subscription from me.
But Dave taught us magazine writing when he had never worked on a magazine.
He taught us public relations when he'd never worked in public relations.
He did it largely by bringing in speakers, which I think helped us
a great deal, we had the fellow, what's his last name, Kershaw or something like that, that was with the Houston Sports Association and talked to us about how that was set up and how they handled the public relations for the program and how they helped get the team started and handled the stadium.
Mike Mistovich, who ran the local radio station,
was also one of those speakers.
And after class, Bob Bell, who's a local businessman here now, still in radio, talked to him about doing a radio show.
At that time, we did it, I think, once a week, and then it later became twice a week, called the Aggie Hour.
And Mike was very generous.
He let us sell advertising and let us keep 50% of the profits.
which did a whole lot to help me pay for school.
And that was on what station?
That was on KORA.
And what time of the week was it?
We ended up doing them on Tuesday and Thursday nights.
And it was usually, seemed to me it was a fairly late show.
It was like about 10 o'clock or something like that that we'd do it.
And mostly played records, talked about things that were going on on campus and all.
Had a few memorable events.
The next year after that, that I started with Bob, he graduated, and so I picked up Tom Morgan, who was a year or so behind me, to be my partner.
And Tom didn't want to sell any advertising, so I got to make all the advertising revenue and then paid him a little bit to be on the air with me.
And, of course, the Vietnam was starting to get pretty big back then, and one of Tom's more memorable faux pas was
when he didn't realize the mic was open, he was joking around about something and he yelled out, but I don't want to die in a rice paddy.
And we heard about that for weeks from people, questioning his patriotism, questioning us even expressing such an opinion on the air and things like that.
People bring us pizzas and even a cake once
feed us while we were on the air out there.
We had a lot of fun.
What were the, at that time, what were the local electronic media outlets in Bryan College Station?
Well, I don't know when Channel 3 got going.
I'm sure it was going, I know it was when I came back to school in 62 because
People broke down the furniture over in the student lounges watching Batman.
And so I know TV was around, but of course we didn't have a whole lot of time to watch it.
Radio was about the only thing we ever tuned.
And how many radio stations were there?
Well, it was WTAW, which has been here forever, and then KORA, and I think it was about that time that Mike put in his FM operation, and I think maybe WTAW followed closely behind him on that, and mostly he was running simulcast or else tape music all the time.
I worked for Mike one summer and did the control board and handled the basic news reading and reading ads and stuff like that.
Got a call from him one day, wanted to know why I had been putting dead air out for the last 15 minutes and I'd thrown the wrong switch.
He wasn't too happy about that, but he understood.
Let's see, in journalism in those days, was the battalion an outlet for student journalists in those days?
Well, it was, and they didn't use, they tried to use student writers some, but the battalion had a nucleus of about eight editors over there, and
they pretty much decided whose stuff they were gonna use and who they weren't.
They weren't in quite a rigid mode of using student input unless it was something they talked to them about and assigned them.
So it had no particular link with the journalism?
Not really connected, no.
And they gave them a set budget for their staff and I worked for the battalion for about a semester
And then that's when I quit and started the radio show because we found out that the editors at the top were dividing most of the money among themselves and then giving a pittance out to everybody else.
I think I made $4 one month on their distribution of funds and I didn't feel like that was very fair.
Let's see, oh, classrooms.
What was the norm then for student classroom behavior, rate of attendance, what you wear, and so forth?
What was normal then for a student going to class?
Well, of course, when I was in the Corps, my clothing was pretty well dictated by whatever the uniform of the day was.
We did have a lot of civilian students in class, and they pretty much wore whatever they wanted to to class.
What were the, whatever they wanted to, how wide was the variation then in student dress?
Well, I mean, people wore shorts to class and tennis shoes and things like that.
But there wasn't any long hair, there weren't any tattoos.
Not to speak of.
There may have been some, but they were rare.
How often did you and your buddies go to class?
How often?
Did almost everybody attend class?
Oh, yeah.
Well, it depended.
We had some profs that took roll, and so you definitely had to be there for that or you'd get counted off for not being there.
Most of the profs pretty much emphasized attendance in class.
They weren't like some profs today that pretty well, you know, it's here if you want it.
If it's not, well, that's too bad, you know.
And going to sleep in class?
Usually they'd throw something at you or find some way to make you jump and embarrass you a little bit.
or they'd holler real loud and catch your attention and try to ask you a question which you obviously didn't know the answer to.
What role did the MSC play in the early 60s in the life of this campus?
What happened at the MSC?
Well, the MSC was the only place people could go and relax in off-duty hours in the evening and stuff.
Most upperclassmen could wear any clothes.
They could wear non-rig clothes and go over there.
Freshmen were supposed to be in uniform anytime they went anywhere on campus, except around their dorm.
And the only time they could wear civilian clothes was during late hours or weekends when they went off campus.
And you had to be going off campus or somebody would stop you and want to know what you're doing in civilian clothes.
The MSC was real popular with people.
I think it gave them a place to kind of go get away from the people in their outfit.
The most popular gathering spot was the snack bar or coffee room area.
And we used to call it the MSC within the MSC because there was a coat rack on the outside of the coffee area that you would hang your
your fatigue jacket and put your hat on and stuff.
And quite often people came back to that rack to find their coat wasn't there.
So that's where it got its nickname, the Military Swapping Center.
And if someone lost a piece of clothing, I think oftentimes they would replace it with someone else's they picked up off of that rack.
Otherwise, you'd end up having to pay to replace something that was issued to you or go buy a piece of clothing.
Did the norms of class hazing, sophomore picking on a freshman, did that normally not occur in the MSC?
MSC was pretty much off limits for any of that stuff, yeah.
And I forgot to mention on the coffee, it was only five cents a cup and you got all the refills you wanted.
people I remember a fellow named Teague that was a journalism major used to corner get a corner table and commandeer it and I don't know whether he was skipping class or not but I know he was there when I when I left for class and he was there when I came back again but no the MSC was was sort of a haven and you didn't have to worry about anybody you know giving you a bad time there they might chew you out for something that you should have done
they wanted to question you on, but as far as hazing you or anything, no, they didn't do that.
How soon were you and your buddies aware of all of the activities that the MSC sponsored?
Well, I don't know that I got fully aware of it until I came back and was a civilian student.
got involved covering things like SCONA and some other activities that were happening over there.
I didn't take advantage of it as much as I should, and I've tried to encourage my daughter and my nieces and nephews to get involved in things, because I think that's where the real education is.
I mean, the book learning end of it's fine,
The things you learn in activities like that are the ones that really stay with you and give you an extra leg up on a lot of people.
Did you get acquainted in those years with J. Wayne Stark?
Oh yes, I knew Mr. Stark and we used to
go interview him for different stories from time to time.
And he was a good source of information about just about anything.
And I know we quickly learned that a lot of students used him as a conduit to get contact with the people in the law profession, the people on Wall Street.